Coffee Roasting/Modules/0_Kaffelogic/How to calibrate the fan of your Kaffelogic Nano 7.md, before:

### Introduction

The Kaffelogic Nano 7 roaster is a highly precise and efficient coffee roaster designed for consistent roasting quality. Proper fan calibration is essential for maintaining optimal performance and ensuring even roasting. This guide outlines the calibration process, including troubleshooting and key considerations.

---

### Why Fan Calibration Matters

- **Airflow Impact**: Inconsistent airflow can lead to issues like scorching or uneven roasting.
- **Transition to New Components**: Switching from an old chaff collector to a newer glass chaff collector may require recalibration.
- **Environmental Factors**: Altitude and room conditions can also influence airflow and calibration needs.

---

### Preparing for Calibration

1. **Firmware Update**  
    Ensure your roaster runs the latest firmware:
    
    - For USB-connected devices, update through Kaffelogic Studio.
    - For older models, use the USB stick to load the latest firmware onto the roaster.
2. **Check Equipment**
    
    - Use 120 grams of average green coffee beans (avoid extreme varieties like Monsoon Malabar or very small beans).

---

### Fan Calibration Process

#### Step 1: Enter Calibration Mode

1. Hold the **plus (+)** and **minus (-)** buttons while switching on the roaster.
2. Access the calibration menu.

#### Step 2: Adjust the Fan

1. Navigate to the "Fan at 40,700 RPM" option using the **menu button**.
2. Adjust the fan speed by pressing the **plus (+)** button six times.
3. Save the setting by pressing the **middle button** twice.

#### Step 3: Test Calibration

1. Load 120 grams of green coffee beans.
2. Select the "K Logic Classic" profile.
3. Observe bean circulation through the glass chaff collector:
    - Beans in the center should move gently and evenly.
![[Screen Recording 2024-12-28 at 2.12.01 p.m..mov]]
---

### Advanced Calibration (Optional)

If basic calibration doesn’t resolve issues:

1. Use the "Fan at 14,700 RPM" option for fine-tuning.
2. Adjust fan speed using the **plus (+)** and **minus (-)** buttons until beans circulate evenly.
3. Save the new setting and test again.

---

### Key Considerations

- **Component Compatibility**: Ensure the collector matches your machine’s airflow needs.
- **Environmental Adjustments**: Calibrate as needed for altitude or room conditions.
- **Documentation**: Record the original and new settings for reference.

---

### Conclusion

Fan calibration is a straightforward but critical process to ensure the Kaffelogic Nano 7 delivers consistent and high-quality roasts. Regularly updating the firmware and monitoring airflow will keep your machine performing at its best.

Happy roasting!

Commit message:

Enhance Kaffelogic documentation with comprehensive guides and updates for user experience

Coffee Roasting/Modules/0_Kaffelogic/How to calibrate the fan of your Kaffelogic Nano 7.md, after:

---
title: "Kaffelogic Nano 7 Fan Calibration Guide"
tags:
  [kaffelogic, fan_calibration, coffee_roasting, user_guide, troubleshooting]
categories: [manual, guide]
module: Kaffelogic
description: "Step-by-step guide for calibrating the fan of the Kaffelogic Nano 7 coffee roaster, including preparation, process, advanced adjustments, and troubleshooting tips."
source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZwKHdwqDcGI
---

### Introduction

The Kaffelogic Nano 7 roaster is a highly precise and efficient coffee roaster designed for consistent roasting quality. Proper fan calibration is essential for maintaining optimal performance and ensuring even roasting. This guide outlines the calibration process, including troubleshooting and key considerations.

---

### Why Fan Calibration Matters

- **Airflow Impact**: Inconsistent airflow can lead to issues like scorching or uneven roasting.
- **Transition to New Components**: Switching from an old chaff collector to a newer glass chaff collector may require recalibration.
- **Environmental Factors**: Altitude and room conditions can also influence airflow and calibration needs.

---

### Preparing for Calibration

1. **Firmware Update**  
   Ensure your roaster runs the latest firmware:

   - For USB-connected devices, update through Kaffelogic Studio.
   - For older models, use the USB stick to load the latest firmware onto the roaster.

2. **Check Equipment**

   - Use 120 grams of average green coffee beans (avoid extreme varieties like Monsoon Malabar or very small beans).

---

### Fan Calibration Process

#### Step 1: Enter Calibration Mode

1. Hold the **plus (+)** and **minus (-)** buttons while switching on the roaster.
2. Access the calibration menu.

#### Step 2: Adjust the Fan

1. Navigate to the "Fan at 40,700 RPM" option using the **menu button**.
2. Adjust the fan speed by pressing the **plus (+)** button six times.
3. Save the setting by pressing the **middle button** twice.

#### Step 3: Test Calibration

1. Load 120 grams of green coffee beans.
2. Select the "K Logic Classic" profile.
3. Observe bean circulation through the glass chaff collector: - Beans in the center should move gently and evenly.
   ![[Screen Recording 2024-12-28 at 2.12.01 p.m..mov]]

---

### Advanced Calibration (Optional)

If basic calibration doesn’t resolve issues:

1. Use the "Fan at 14,700 RPM" option for fine-tuning.
2. Adjust fan speed using the **plus (+)** and **minus (-)** buttons until beans circulate evenly.
3. Save the new setting and test again.

---

### Key Considerations

- **Component Compatibility**: Ensure the collector matches your machine’s airflow needs.
- **Environmental Adjustments**: Calibrate as needed for altitude or room conditions.
- **Documentation**: Record the original and new settings for reference.

---

### Conclusion

Fan calibration is a straightforward but critical process to ensure the Kaffelogic Nano 7 delivers consistent and high-quality roasts. Regularly updating the firmware and monitoring airflow will keep your machine performing at its best.

Happy roasting!
