Coffee Roasting/Modules/0_Kaffelogic/Kaffelogic Nano 7 - Champion's Choice for Coffee Roasting.md, before:

### Introduction

In a fascinating interview, specialty coffee trainer and barista competitor Erhan Dizbay shares his journey in coffee championships and his experiences with the Kaffelogic Nano roaster. This article delves into the nuances of coffee competitions, the art of coffee selection, and how roasting plays a pivotal role in achieving excellence.

---

### The World of Coffee Competitions

Barista Championships are intricate events where competitors have 15 minutes to prepare and present four espressos, four milk beverages, and four signature drinks. These drinks are judged by sensory experts who evaluate flavor, and technical judges who assess preparation methods. Erhan emphasizes the importance of storytelling and professional presentation during this tight timeframe, which often feels shorter than expected.

---

### Coffee Selection: The Key to Success

For competitions, the choice of coffee is critical. Erhan selected a Geisha variety from Colombia, processed innovatively using anaerobic fermentation. This meticulous process involved:

1. **Hand-picking cherries**: Ensuring only the ripest beans are chosen.
2. **Anaerobic fermentation**: A two-stage process lasting 48 hours in sealed environments, imparting unique flavors.
3. **Solar drying**: Precisely controlled drying to maintain uniformity.

This experimental approach ensured exceptional quality, giving Erhan an edge in his presentation.

---

### The Decision to Roast Personally

Most competitors rely on roasters for their coffee, but Erhan opted to roast his own. His reasoning included:

- **Connection with coffee**: Roasting enables a deeper understanding of the bean’s potential.
- **Control**: Using micro-lots meant precise roasting was essential to maximize quality and minimize waste.

---

### Kaffelogic Nano: A Game-Changer

Erhan’s use of the Kaffelogic Nano roaster was pivotal. Its compact design and consistent performance allowed him to:

- Experiment with **small batches**.
- Fine-tune roast profiles to suit the coffee’s characteristics.
- Maintain consistency under competition pressure.

The device also offered ready-to-drink options, which proved surprisingly effective for quick evaluations.

---

### Portability and Versatility

The Kaffelogic Nano’s lightweight design makes it ideal for sourcing trips. Erhan plans to use it during his visits to coffee origins like Kenya. This enables him to roast and taste coffee immediately, ensuring it meets his standards before taking it to competitions.

---

### Educational Benefits

As a trainer, Erhan integrates the Kaffelogic Nano into his classes, demonstrating the impact of roast profiles on flavor. Students gain hands-on experience, enhancing their understanding of coffee roasting and brewing.

---

### Conclusion

Erhan Dizbay’s journey showcases the intricate art and science behind competitive coffee-making. From selecting premium beans to mastering roast profiles, his dedication exemplifies the passion required to succeed in the world of specialty coffee. The Kaffelogic Nano roaster emerged as an invaluable tool, bridging the gap between quality and convenience.

For aspiring baristas and coffee enthusiasts, this story serves as both an inspiration and a guide to exploring the depths of coffee craftsmanship.

Commit message:

Enhance Kaffelogic documentation with comprehensive guides and updates for user experience

Coffee Roasting/Modules/0_Kaffelogic/Kaffelogic Nano 7 - Champion's Choice for Coffee Roasting.md, after:

---
title: "Erhan Dizbay: Journey Through Coffee Championships with Kaffelogic Nano"
tags:
  [
    coffee_competitions,
    barista_championships,
    kaffelogic,
    coffee_roasting,
    specialty_coffee,
  ]
categories: [interview, story]
module: Kaffelogic
description: "An insightful interview with Erhan Dizbay, exploring his experiences in barista championships, his coffee selection strategy, and the role of the Kaffelogic Nano roaster in achieving excellence."
soruce: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oQB0koUF2Ps
---

### Introduction

In a fascinating interview, specialty coffee trainer and barista competitor Erhan Dizbay shares his journey in coffee championships and his experiences with the Kaffelogic Nano roaster. This article delves into the nuances of coffee competitions, the art of coffee selection, and how roasting plays a pivotal role in achieving excellence.

---

### The World of Coffee Competitions

Barista Championships are intricate events where competitors have 15 minutes to prepare and present four espressos, four milk beverages, and four signature drinks. These drinks are judged by sensory experts who evaluate flavor, and technical judges who assess preparation methods. Erhan emphasizes the importance of storytelling and professional presentation during this tight timeframe, which often feels shorter than expected.

---

### Coffee Selection: The Key to Success

For competitions, the choice of coffee is critical. Erhan selected a Geisha variety from Colombia, processed innovatively using anaerobic fermentation. This meticulous process involved:

1. **Hand-picking cherries**: Ensuring only the ripest beans are chosen.
2. **Anaerobic fermentation**: A two-stage process lasting 48 hours in sealed environments, imparting unique flavors.
3. **Solar drying**: Precisely controlled drying to maintain uniformity.

This experimental approach ensured exceptional quality, giving Erhan an edge in his presentation.

---

### The Decision to Roast Personally

Most competitors rely on roasters for their coffee, but Erhan opted to roast his own. His reasoning included:

- **Connection with coffee**: Roasting enables a deeper understanding of the bean’s potential.
- **Control**: Using micro-lots meant precise roasting was essential to maximize quality and minimize waste.

---

### Kaffelogic Nano: A Game-Changer

Erhan’s use of the Kaffelogic Nano roaster was pivotal. Its compact design and consistent performance allowed him to:

- Experiment with **small batches**.
- Fine-tune roast profiles to suit the coffee’s characteristics.
- Maintain consistency under competition pressure.

The device also offered ready-to-drink options, which proved surprisingly effective for quick evaluations.

---

### Portability and Versatility

The Kaffelogic Nano’s lightweight design makes it ideal for sourcing trips. Erhan plans to use it during his visits to coffee origins like Kenya. This enables him to roast and taste coffee immediately, ensuring it meets his standards before taking it to competitions.

---

### Educational Benefits

As a trainer, Erhan integrates the Kaffelogic Nano into his classes, demonstrating the impact of roast profiles on flavor. Students gain hands-on experience, enhancing their understanding of coffee roasting and brewing.

---

### Conclusion

Erhan Dizbay’s journey showcases the intricate art and science behind competitive coffee-making. From selecting premium beans to mastering roast profiles, his dedication exemplifies the passion required to succeed in the world of specialty coffee. The Kaffelogic Nano roaster emerged as an invaluable tool, bridging the gap between quality and convenience.

For aspiring baristas and coffee enthusiasts, this story serves as both an inspiration and a guide to exploring the depths of coffee craftsmanship.
